Modularization guidelines (#15)
SPLURT-Station/S.P.L.U.R.T-tg: modular_zzplurt/readme.md

# The Modularization Handbook - S.P.L.U.R.T. Style, v1.0

## Introduction

> Welcome to the S.P.L.U.R.T. station's modularization handbook! Our goal is to make contributing to our codebase as easy and comfy as possible for coders while upkeeping our code standards. We understand that maintaining a codebase that's a fork of another can be challenging, but with the right practices, we can keep our code clean, organized, and easy to manage. This handbook outlines our modularization protocols and coding standards to help you get started.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Welcome to the S.P.L.U.R.T. codebase's modularization handbook! Our goal is to make contributing to our codebase as easy and comfy as possible for coders while upkeeping our code standards. We understand that maintaining a codebase that's a fork of another can be challenging, but with the right practices, we can keep our code clean, organized, and easy to manage. This handbook outlines our modularization protocols and coding standards to help you get started.
```
I'm a little nitpicky about calling it the SPLURT codebase rather than the SPLURT station (the station's in-game and created by mappers, after all), so feel free to ignore if it's not to your tastes.

```

This results in a conflict that needs to be resolved manually. Our solution is modularization.

## The Modularization Protocol

Modularization is the practice of organizing code into separate, self-contained modules that can be developed, tested, and maintained independently. In the context of our codebase, this means placing as much as possible of the new code, icons, sounds, and other assets into the `modular_zzplurt` folder. This approach helps keep our core codebase clean and reduces the likelihood of conflicts when merging changes. By following a structure that resembles the main repository within the `modular_zzplurt` folder, we ensure that our modular code is easy to navigate and manage. This also allows us to make changes and add new features without directly modifying the core files, thereby maintaining the integrity and stability of the main codebase.

Our modularization protocols are founded on three pillars:

1. **Modularize anything that's reasonable to modularize:** This includes anything that can be modularized without decreasing its quality or the quality of existing code, and won't logically cause more issues by modularizing than not doing it.

> 2. **Use commenting conventions for non-modular edits:** When editing non-modular code, make sure to adequately use the commenting conventions to ensure it is known that it's a non-modular edit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. **Use commenting conventions for non-modular edits:** When editing non-modular code, make sure to adequately use the [commenting conventions](#commenting-conventions) to ensure it is known that it's a non-modular edit.
```
This should add a link to the relevant section in this document. I think.

> 3. **It's ok to mess up:** These rules are intended less as a set of guidelines for contributors to strictly follow, but rather coding standards that we all collectively help to attain, for examble through maintainers helping any contributors fulfill them in their pull requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. **It's ok to mess up:** These guidelines are intended less as a set of ironclad rules for contributors to strictly follow, but rather coding standards that we all collectively help to attain, for example through maintainers helping any contributors fulfill them in their pull requests.
```
I would call these guidelines rather than rules, personally, but that's again a matter of personal taste in writing. Also, typo; `examble` should be `example`.

```byond
/obj/item/gun
    var/muzzle_flash = TRUE

    ...

/obj/item/gun
    muzzle_flash = FALSE
```

In this example, a new variable muzzle_flash is added to the /obj/item/gun object with a value of `TRUE`. The value of this variable is later changed to `FALSE` through overriding.

#### Proc Overrides

Proc overrides allow you to extend or modify the behavior of existing procedures (procs) without directly editing the core files. This is done by defining a new proc that calls the original proc and then adds the new behavior. For example:

```byond
/obj/item/gun/shoot_live_shot(mob/living/user, pointblank = 0, atom/pbtarget = null, message = 1)
    . = ..() // Call the original proc and set its value to the default return value
    if(muzzle_flash)
        spawn_sparks(src) // Add new behavior
```

In this example, the shoot_live_shot proc is overridden to add a new behavior (spawning sparks) after calling the original proc. This ensures that the new behavior is added without modifying the core code.

> 

Reviewer: We should probably add something here (or somewhere else in the document, with a link) about file include order; proc overrides run in the order of last-defined to first-defined, and BYOND orders files in alphabetical order (with `_` being before all letters, and `~` being after). This would also potentially be a good spot to explain why the folder is `modular_zzplurt` rather than `modular_splurt`; `modular_zz` ensures that it comes after all the other `modular_` folders.

Author: Oh yeah that makes sense, it'd be a good idea to explain the order of including and compilation in byond. I think it'd be better to put it under this section

#### When to Use Modular Overrides

Modular overrides should be used whenever possible to keep the core codebase clean and maintainable. However, it's important to use them judiciously and ensure that they do not introduce performance issues or make the code harder to understand and maintain. Specifically:

- **Use modular overrides when they won't cause more issues than not modularizing them:** If a modular override would introduce significant complexity, performance issues, or maintenance challenges, it may be better to make a non-modular edit with proper commenting.

> - **Avoid unnecessary overrides:** Do not override procs or variables unless it is necessary for your feature or fix. Unnecessary overrides can lead to maintenance headaches and potential conflicts with upstream changes.

Reviewer: Is `Do not override procs or variables unless it is necessary for your feature or fix.` really worth saying? I feel like everyone adding something thinks it's necessary; it'd be better to say something like
```suggestion
- **Avoid unnecessary overrides:** Do not override procs or variables unless it is the only reasonable way to implement your feature or fix. Unnecessary overrides can lead to maintenance headaches and potential conflicts with upstream changes.
```
That ties in nicely with the first pillar in `## The Modularization Protocol` above, in that modular edits and overrides should only be used when they're the most reasonable option. We could even add a link to that section here (or have an entirely new section explaining what it means for a change to be reasonable, if necessary).

Author: Yeah, the idea that the modularization protocols should convey to coders in that regard is "Always try first modularizing your changes. Only edit non modular code if it's not possible to modularize or if modularizing would worsen the code compared to not modularizing."

> - **Document your overrides:** Clearly documenting any modular overrides in your code and helps maintainers and other contributors understand the changes and their purpose.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Document your overrides:** Clearly documenting any modular overrides in your code helps maintainers and other contributors understand your changes and their purpose.
```

By following these guidelines, we can ensure that our codebase remains clean, maintainable, and easy to navigate, while still allowing for the flexibility to add new features and make necessary changes.

## Folder Structure

Instead of using different modules for every different bit of the game, we prefer to use a structure that resembles the structure of the repo itself inside our modular folder. This means we have one coding folder for all the code, one icons folder, one sounds folder, etc.

- **Code:** Any .dm files should go in `modular_zzplurt/code/`.
- **Icons:** Any .dmi files should go in `modular_zzplurt/icons/`.

> - **Sounds:** Any sound files should go in `modular_zzplurt/sounds/`.

Reviewer: We should probably make a note about what reasonable sizes and formats for sound files are—we don't want to bloat the rsc with massive uncompressed `.wav` files. Everything added should be a `.ogg` file with as much compression as possible without hurting audio quality too severely, unless you have an *extremely* good reason otherwise.

Author: Yeah, that could go in this section or on this section explaining binary files
